# Configuring IPv6

## Dual-Stack Routing
- `IPv4` had been a standard for a very long time.
	- Starting to move to `IPv6`
- **Dual-Stack Routing** could run both at the same time.
- The devices (Layer 3, interfaces) can deal with both of the protocol.

- `IPv4`
	- Configured with *IPv4* address, etc
	- Maintains an *IPv4* routing table
	- Uses *IPv4* dynamic routing protocols

- `IPv6`
	- Configured with *IPv6* address
	- Maintains a separate *IPv6* routing table
	- Uses *IPv6* dynamic routing protocols

## Tunneling IPv6
- The device may not be able to update to have a Dual-Stack Routing.
- **Tunneling** is the one way to solve the problem.
- *6 to 4* addressing
	- Send *IPv6* over an existing *IPv4* network
	- Creates an *IPv6* address based on the *IPv4* address
	- Requires relay routers
		- IP protocol 41: a transition technology
      - Use this for identify special packet that contains IPv6 info
	- No support for *NAT (Network Address Translation)*
- *4 in 6* tunneling
	- Tunnel *IPv4* traffic on an *IPv6* network

## Teredo / Miredo
- `Teredo Tunnel`
  - Tunnel *IPv6* through NATed *IPv4*
  - end-to-end `IPv6` *through* an `IPv4` network
  - The network can use the *IPv6* with no concern, on your *IPv4* routers.
  - It is a temporary usable way that hopes that *IPv6* will be used natively on your network
- `Miredo`
	- **Open-source Teredo for Linux, BSD Unix, and MAC OS X** (full functionality)

## NDP (Neighbor Discovery Protocol)
- With `IPv6`, there are no concern about *Broadcasting*
- But still we have to find the other devices on the same network
- No Broadcast
	- Operates using `multi-cast` with *ICMPv6*
- **Neighbor MAC** Discovery
	- Same functionality with `ARP (Address Resolution Protocol)` in *IPv4*
- **SLAAC** `(Stateless Address Auto-configuration)`
	- Automatically configure an IP address without having to access a DHCP server
- **DAD** `(Duplicate Address Detection)`
	- No duplicate IPs!
- **Discover routers**
	- Router Solicitation (**RS**)
	- Router Advertisement (**RA**)

## Finding Router
- ICMPv6 adds the NDP
	1. Workstation sends **RS** to all IPv6 routers on the network
  - - **RS**: a *multicast* to all `IPv6` Routers on the network.
  2. Local Router sends **RA** which contains the routers' MAC address back to the workstation
  - - **RA**: a *unicast* frame that is advertising itself `IPv6` (a router on the network).
- Routers also occasionally send *unsolicited RA* to the multicast destinations.
- Transfers IPv6: Address Information, Prefix Value, Prefix Length, etc.

## Howdy, neighbor
- There's no **ARP** in IPv6
	- So how do you find out the MAC address of another device on the network?
- `Neighbor Solicitation (NS)`
  - Sent as a multicast solicitation (ie. "is there anyone has ip address xx::xx::xx")
- `Neighbor Advertisement (NA)`
  - Sent as a directed frame

- **NS** can be used as finding an available `IPv6` address, avoiding duplicated IP address
