# Spanning Tree Protocol

## Loop Protection
-  Connect two switches to each other
	-  create a loop with two cables
	-  sending the traffic back and forth forever
	-  there's no *counting* mechanism at the MAC layer
-  Very Easy way to bring down a network
	-  difficult to troubleshoot
	-  relatively easy to resolve (just remove the redundant cable)
-  IEEE standard `802.1D` to prevent loops in bridged (switched) networks (1990)
	- **STP**

## STP port states
- If a port on a switch has been configured to use *Spanning Tree Protocol*, there are certain set of states that this particular port might be in.
	- `Blocking State`: block any traffic that can occur *loop* from going through that port
	- `Listening State`: Listening to find another STP devices on the network.
		- Not fowarding and cleaning the MAC table
	- `Learning State`: Learning from `Listening` and adding the `MAC address` to the `Spanning Tree Table`
	- `Fowarding State` : Operational state, which now can pass the traffic between the devices
	- `Disabled State`: turning off the port. (by administrator)

## Spanning Tree Protocol
- In the spanning tree protocol network, there are **3** types of interfaces that are configured automatically by the protocol.
	1. `Root Port`
		- Network can only have **one** `Root switch` on its network.
		- each of the switch (except `root switch`) has a one designated port named `Root Port` and i t is the closest port to the `Root Switch`.
	2. `Designated Port`
		- The port that is not a `root port`, but can allow the traffic to traverse. 
	3. `Blocked Port`
		- The port that is disabled to prevent a loop
- In this structure, there are no longer have to be worry about the loop
- However, it causes a overhead that the traffic might have to traverse a longer way.
- When the status of the network has been changed, STP will automatically converge the network.

## RSTP(802.1w) - one of the standards of SPT
- Rapid Spanning Tree Protocol (802.1w)
	- A much-needed updated of STP
	- This is the latest standard
- Faster convergence
	- from 30~50 seconds to 6 seconds
- Backwards-compatible with 802.1D STP (older)
- Very similar process with the older one
