# Configuring IPv6

## Dual-Stack Routing
- `IPv4` had been a standard for a very long time.
	- Starting to move to `IPv6`
- **Dual-Stack Routing** could run both at the same time.
- The devices (Layer 3, interfaces) can deal with both of the protocol.

- `IPv4`
	- Configured with *IPv4* address, etc
	- Maintains an *IPv4* routing table
	- Uses *IPv4* dynamic routing protocols

- `IPv6`
	- Configured with *IPv6* address
	- Maintains a separate *IPv6* routing table
	- Uses *IPv6* dynamic routing protocols

## Tunneling IPv6
- The device may not be able to update to have a Dual-Stack Routing.
- **Tunneling** is the one way to solve the problem.
- *6 to 4* addressing
	- Send *IPv6* over an existing *IPv4* network
	- Creates an *IPv6* address based on the *IPv4* address
	- Requires relay routers
		- IP protocol 41 - a transition technology
	- No support for *NAT (Network Address Translation)*
- *4 in 6* tunneling
	- Tunnel *IPv4* traffic on an *IPv6* network

## Teredo / Miredo
- `Teredo Tunnel`
	- Tunnel *IPv6* through NATed *IPv4*
	- The network can use the *IPv6* with no concern, on your *IPv4* routers.
	- It is a temporary usable way that hopes that *IPv6* will be used natively on your network
- `Miredo`
	- **Open-source Teredo for Linux, BSD Unix, and MAC OS X** (full functionality)

## NDP (Neighbor Discovery Protocol)
- With `IPv6`, there are no concern about *Broadcasting*
- But still we have to find the other devices on the same network
- No Broadcast
	- Operates using `multi-cast` with *ICMPv6*
- Neighbor MAC Discovery
	- Replaces the *IPv4*
	- Same functionality with `ARP (Address Resolution Protocol)` in *IPv4*
- `SLAAC (Stateless Address Auto-configuration)`
	- Automatically configure an IP address without having to access a DHCP server
- `DAD (Duplicate Address Detection)`
	- No duplicate IPs!
- Discover routers
	- Router Solicitation (RS)
	- Router Advertisement (RA)

## Finding Router
- ICMPv6 adds the NDP
	1. Workstation sends **RS** to all IPv6 routers on the network
	2. Local Router sends **RA** which contains the routers' MAC address back to the workstation
- Routers also send multi-cast unsolicited RA messages to the workstation
-  Transfers IPv6: Address Information, Prefix Value, Prefix Length, etc.

## Howdy, neighbor
- There's no **ARP** in IPv6
	- So how do you find out the MAC address of a device?
- `Neighbor Solicitation (NS)`
- `Neighbor Advertisement (NA)`
