# 3.4 Accessing Information

- Historically, It begins with the original `8086`, which had eight **16-bit** registers.
	- They had a specific purpose, so they got a name reflected how they were to be used.

| %ax | %bx | %cx | %dx | %si | %di | %bp | %sp |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |


	
- `IA32` comes next with a larger memory bits (**32-bit**)
- The regsters were therefore expanded to 32-bit regsters, labeled with prefix `e`

| %eax | %ebx | %ecx | %edx | %esi | %edi | %ebp | %esp |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

- In the extension to `x96-64`, the original eight registers were expanded to 64-bit registers, and labeled with prefix `r` instead of `e`.

| %rax | %rbx | %rcx | %rdx | %rsi | %rdi | %rbp | %rsp |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

- Even more, there are 8 new registers are added, so they needed a new naming conventions.
- they simply got numbers at the end with prefix `r` 

| %r8 | %r9 | %r10 | %r11 | %r12 | %r13 | %r14 | %r15 |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

- So, in modern system, the computer can operate the instructions on various size of data stored in the registers

- Different registers typically serve different roles in the program.

## 3.4.1 Operand Specifiers
- Most instructions have one ore more `operand`, which could be a *source* or *destination* of the data.
- In here, we'll gonna take a look at `x86-64` operand forms.
- The *Source* value can be: *constants* or *read data* from memory or registers
- The *Result* value can be stored in either *memory* or *register*
- Thus, operands can be classified into three types.

| Type | Form | Operand Value | Name |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|Immediate| $\$Imm$ | $Imm$ | Immediate |
|Register | $r_a$| R[$r_a$] | Register |
|Memory| $Imm$ | M[$Imm$] | Absolute |
|Memory| ($r_a$) | M[R[$r_a$]] | Indirect |
|Memory| $Imm$($r_b$)|M[$Imm$+R[$r_b$]]| Indirect|
|Memory| ($r_b$, $r_i$)| M[R[$r_b$] + R[$r_i$]]| Indexed|
|Memory| $Imm$($r_b$, $r_i$)|M[$Imm$ + R[$r_b$] + R[$r_i$]]| Indexed
|Memory| (,$r_i$, $s$)| M[R[$r_i$] $\cdot s$]| Scaled indexed|
|Memory| $Imm$(,$r_i$, $s$)| M[$Imm$ + R[$r_i$] $\cdot s$]| Scaled Indexed|
|Memory| ($r_b$, $r_i$, $s$) | M[R[$r_b$] + R[$r_i$]$\cdot s$]| Scaled Indexed|
|Memory| $Imm$($r_b$, $r_i$, $s$)| M[$Imm$ + R[$r_b$] + R[$r_i$] $\cdot s$] | Scaled Indexed|

1. `Immediate`
	- In ATT format, `$0x100`
2. `Register`
	- The contents of the registers, one of the 16-, 8-, 4-, 2-, or 1- byte low-orderportions of the register. 
	- In the above table, $r_a$ denotes an arbitrary register $a$
	- The value of the $r_a$ is denoted as R[$r_a$], viewing the set of registers as an array R indexed by register identifiers.
3. `Memory`
	- The address used to access some memory location often called the *effective address*
	- The memory could be considered as a large array, $M_b$[$Addr$] means $b$-byte value stored in memory starting at address $Addr$.
	- For the simplicity, drop the $b$
	- The general form is at the bottom of the table, $Imm$($r_b$, $r_i$, $s$).
		- $Imm$: Immediate offset
		- $r_b$: base register (must be 64-bit register)
		- $r_i$: index register (must be 64-bit register)
		- $s$: scalar factor (must be 1, 2, 4, or 8)
- So, the `*effective address*` is computed as below (in general form)
	- $Imm$ + R[$r_b$] + R[$r_i$] $\cdot s$
